---
title: A new blog site
date: 2019-01-07 11:58:47 +07:00
# modified: 2020-07-11 16:49:47 +07:00
tags: [jekyll]
description: Why I switched to Jekyll site from Wordpress
---

At the start of 2019, I decided to move my blog site to a new platform. Earlier my blog site was hosted on Wordpress and it worked just fine. However, back then I didn't know about Jekyll and GitHub pages. First and foremost, I am not a web developer so this change was difficult for me at the start but how else are you going to learn new things if you don't try? 😊

Here are a few reasons why I switched my blog site hosting platform:

### Presentation

It looked so different and nice when I first published a blog using Jekyll. For me the way the blog got displayed was much better than the old platform. 

### Customization

This is probably the number 1 reason why I started using Jekyll. I pretty much like to customize everything. With this new platform, I feel like I have more control over what and how I want to publish. I mostly work on the terminal to work on AWS, Ansible, and Docker 🐳. Hence, if I write a script or a code and present it then I like to make sure that it gets displayed correctly. As you write your blogs in markdown, it gives you several options to add your code, insert a YouTube video, and much more.

### Free hosting!

Jekyll is free and works well with GitHub pages. You can write blogs or make changes on the go and deploy your changes to GitHub quickly. There are a lot of Jekyll themes that you can use if you don't want to start from scratch. 

### What I miss...

Nothing. 😊

### Issues faced and lessons learned

Finally, I want to talk about the issues that I faced and the lessons that I learned from this.

- Many Jekyll themes that I took a look at didn't work after I forked them. I checked my configuration multiple times but couldn't figure it out. Hence, finding the right theme was a challenge. 

- Once I found the right theme, I had to learn how the website was built. Since I had no prior experience of web development, it was really difficult to figure out how everything was linked.

- Once I had my blog site up and running, I reviewed it multiple times for errors and issues. I found that the discussion section was working and it was throwing an error. I checked the html files related to Disqus but had no luck. In the end, I figured out after looking online that I had to create an account with a third party tool called Disqus. As Disqus had no idea about my blog domain, it wasn't working. 